Architecture diagrams (#119)
canonical/dns-operators: docs/explanation/bind-charm-architecture.md

# Bind charm architecture

The following diagram shows the different modules of this charm
and how they interact with each other.

```mermaid
C4Component

> title Bind Operator Components

Reviewer: I think in this section, I was expecting something more like this:
https://github.com/canonical/github-runner-operator/blob/main/docs/explanation/charm-architecture.md
Instead of file names more like components/modules and external integrations if any.
wdyt

Author: I thought a bit about this and I prefer filenames since they directly indicate where to look for things.  
I could add the module names but sometimes there is no class (for events.py for example).

By external integrations, you mean imports of external libraries ? Because this charm's code doesn't discuss with the outside world except through its relations

Reviewer: I discussed this case with Erin as well, and since we don't have a specific pattern to follow and all the approaches seem reasonable, we can work on standardizing the architecture in the future.

External I mean components/other charms.

UpdateLayoutConfig($c4ShapeInRow="3", $c4BoundaryInRow="2")

Container_Boundary(bind-operator, "Bind Operator") {
    Component(events, "events.py", "Module", "Defines custom events")
    Component(exceptions, "exceptions.py", "Module", "Defines custom exceptions")
    Component(empty1, "")
    Component(charm, "charm.py", "Module", "Handles charm events and interactions with Juju")
    Component(empty2, "")
    Component(dns_data, "dns_data.py", "Module", "Manages DNS record data and conversions")
    Component(empty3, "")
    Component(empty4, "")
    Component(empty5, "")
    Component(models, "models.py", "Module", "Defines data models using Pydantic")
    Component(empty7, "")
    Component(bind, "bind.py", "Module", "Controls BIND workload execution")
    Component(empty6, "")
    Component(constants, "constants.py", "Module", "Defines constant values")

>     Component(templates, "templates.py", "Module", "Provides templates for BIND configuration files")

Author: This is a mistake

>     Component(templates, "templates.py", "Module", "Provides templates for BIND configuration files")

Author: Fixed

UpdateElementStyle(templates, $fontColor="black", $bgColor="lightblue", $borderColor="gray")
UpdateElementStyle(constants, $fontColor="black", $bgColor="lightblue", $borderColor="gray")
UpdateElementStyle(events, $fontColor="black", $bgColor="lightblue", $borderColor="gray")
UpdateElementStyle(exceptions, $fontColor="black", $bgColor="lightblue", $borderColor="gray")
```

## Scaling behavior

When Bind is scaled, only one unit gets the `active` status, all the others are in `standby`. A new `active` unit is elected whenever the previous one goes down.  
The `active` unit is the one updating the zone configuration of its workload and has Bind working as a primary authoritative server over them.  
All the `standby` units have Bind working as a secondary server, replicating the records via the usual DNS zone transfer.

## Charm code overview

The `src/charm.py` is the default entry point for a charm and has the `BindCharm` Python class which inherits from `CharmBase`. `CharmBase` is the base class from which all charms are formed, defined by [Ops](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/ops) Python framework for developing charms.

> > See more in the Juju docs: [Charm](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/user/reference/charm/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> See more in the Juju docs: [Charm](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/user/reference/charm/)
```
Juju team prefers to use `3.6` instead of `latest`

## Workload

> The workload of this charm is a snap whose source code is in this repository, in the `charmed-bind` directory. The workload is operated through the `src/bind.py` module (which is able to start, stop, restart it, change its configuration files, set it up).  

Author: By more specific, you mean add a link to the repo ?

> The workload of this charm is a snap whose source code is in this repository, in the `charmed-bind` directory. The workload is operated through the `src/bind.py` module (which is able to start, stop, restart it, change its configuration files, set it up).  

Author: I added a link

The workload doesn't communicate with the charm. It merely executes the charm's orders.  

> Outside of the snap, the chamr also sets up a systemd timer to be awaken every minute through the `ReloadBindEvent`. The hook responding to it makes sure that the configuration of Bind is up to date with the charm's relations.

Author: No, `ReloadBindEvent` is a custom event. "It" was referring to the event

> Outside of the snap, the chamr also sets up a systemd timer to be awaken every minute through the `ReloadBindEvent`. The hook responding to it makes sure that the configuration of Bind is up to date with the charm's relations.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for clarifying! I think that these two sentences could be clearer, so I suggest something like:
```
Outside of the snap, the charm also sets up a systemd timer to awaken every minute through the custom event `ReloadBindEvent`. The hook responding to this event makes sure that the configuration of Bind is up to date with the charm's relations.
```
